Docs:  Update InfluxDB data source documentation (#96343)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/datasources/influxdb/configure-influxdb-data-source/_index.md

Reviewer: Also the file (and the resulting URL path) could be renamed and shortened to just `configure`

---
aliases:
  - ../data-sources/influxdb/
  - ../data-sources/influxdb/provision-influxdb/
  - ../features/datasources/influxdb/
  - provision-influxdb/
description: Guide for using InfluxDB in Grafana
keywords:
  - grafana
  - influxdb
  - guide
  - flux
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: Configure the InfluxDB data source
title: Configure the InfluxDB data source
weight: 300
refs:
  build-dashboards:
  provision-grafana:
    - pattern: /docs/grafana/
      destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/administration/provisioning/#provision-grafana
    - pattern: /docs/grafana-cloud/
      destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/administration/provisioning/#provision-grafana  
---

# Configure the InfluxDB data source

> This document describes how to configure the InfluxDB data source and reviews configuration options. 

Reviewer 2: I am not familiar with the "voice" of documentation but wondering if a more active voice works better. `This document provides instructions for configuring the InfluxDB data source and explains the available configuration options.`

Author: I like it!

## Before you begin

To configure the InfluxDB data source you must have the `Administrator` role.

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
Select the query language you want to use with InfluxDB before adding the InfluxDB data source. Configuration options differ based on query language type.
{{< /admonition >}}

InfluxData provides three query languages. Some key points to consider:

- SQL is only available for InfluxDB v3.x.
- Flux is a functional data scripting language for InfluxDB 2.x. Refer to [Query InfluxDB with Flux](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/cloud/query-data/get-started/query-influxdb/) for a basic guide on working with Flux.

> - InfluxQL is SQL-like query language developed by InfluxData. It doesn't support more advanced functions such as JOINs.

Reviewer 2: Nit: InfluxQL is a SQL-like query language...

Reviewer 2: Also wondering if a list makes it more readable:

- **SQL**: Available only for InfluxDB v3.x.
- **Flux**: A functional data scripting language for InfluxDB 2.x. Refer to [Query InfluxDB with Flux](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/cloud/query-data/get-started/query-influxdb/) for a guide on using Flux.
- **InfluxQL**: A SQL-like query language developed by InfluxData. It does not support advanced features like JOINs. For a comparison of Flux and InfluxQL, refer to [Flux vs InfluxQL](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v1.8/flux/flux-vs-influxql/) and [Why InfluxData Created Flux](https://www.influxdata.com/blog/why-were-building-flux-a-new-data-scripting-and-query-language/).

Author: I'd like to keep it as is, especially since there's a precondition - "Some points to consider". I feel full sentences flow better.

- **TLS client auth** - Toggle to use client authentication. When enabled, add the `Server name`, `Client cert` and `Client key` under the **TLS/SSL auth details** section. The client provides a certificate that the server validates to establish the client’s trusted identity. The client key encrypts the data between client and server. 
- **With CA cert** - Authenticate with a CA certificate. Follow the instructions of your CA (Certificate Authority) to download the certificate file.
- **Skip TLS verify** - Toggle to bypass TLS certificate validation.
- **Forward OAuth identity** - Forward the OAuth access token (and also the OIDC ID token if available) of the user querying the data source.

**Basic auth details:**

If you enable **Basic auth** under the Auth section you need to configure the following:

- **User** - Add the username used to sign in to InfluxDB.
- **Password** - Defines the token you use to query the bucket defined in **Database**. Retrieve this from the [Tokens page](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.0/security/tokens/view-tokens/) in the InfluxDB UI.

**TLS/SSL auth details:**

> TLS/SSL certificates are encrypted and stared int he Grafana database.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
TLS/SSL certificates are encrypted and stored in the Grafana database.
```

> TLS/SSL certificates are encrypted and stared int he Grafana database.

Author: fixed!

- **HTTP method** - Sets the HTTP method used to query your data source. The POST method allows for larger queries that would return an error using the GET method. The default method is `POST`.
- **Min time interval** - _(Optional)_ Sets the minimum time interval for auto group-by.  Grafana recommends  setting this to match the data write frequency. For example, if your data is written every minute, it’s recommended to set this interval to 1 minute, so that each group contains data from each new write. The default is `10s`. Refer to [Min time interval](#configure-min-time-interval) for format examples.
- **Max series** - _(Optional)_ Sets a limit on the maximum number of series or tables that Grafana processes.  Set a lower limit to prevent system overload, or increase it if you have many small time series and need to display more of them. The default is `1000`.

### SQL-specific configuration section

The following settings are specific to the SQL query language option.

**SQL InfluxDB details section:**

> - **Database** - Add the ID of the bucket to query. Obtain this from the **Buckets page** of the InfluxDB UI. 

Reviewer 2: Nit: Specify the bucket ID. See the **Buckets page** in the InfluxDB UI to locate the ID.

Author: fixed

- **Token** The API token used for SQL queries. Generated on InfluxDB Cloud dashboard under [Load Data > API Tokens](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/cloud-serverless/get-started/setup/#create-an-all-access-api-token) menu.
- **Insecure Connection** - Toggle to disable gRPC TLS security.
- **Max series** - _(Optional)_ Sets a limit on the maximum number of series or tables that Grafana processes.  Set a lower limit to prevent system overload, or increase it if you have many small time series and need to display more of them. The default is `1000`.

### Flux-specific configuration section

The following settings are specific to the Flux query language option.

**Flux InfluxDB details section:**

- **Organization** - The [Influx organization](https://v2.docs.influxdata.com/v2.0/organizations/) used for Flux queries. Also used for the `v.organization` query macro.

> - **Token** - The authentication token used for Flux queries. With Influx 2.0, use the [influx authentication token to function](https://v2.docs.influxdata.com/v2.0/security/tokens/create-token/). Token must be set as `Authorization` header with the value `Token <generated-token>`. For influx 1.8, the token is `username:password`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Token** - The authentication token used for Flux queries. With Influx 2.0, use the [Influx authentication token to function](https://v2.docs.influxdata.com/v2.0/security/tokens/create-token/). Token must be set as `Authorization` header with the value `Token <generated-token>`. For Influx 1.8, the token is `username:password`. 
```

---
aliases:
  - ../data-sources/influxdb/
  - ../data-sources/influxdb/provision-influxdb/
  - ../features/datasources/influxdb/

>   - provision-influxdb/

Reviewer: As this is a new page, does it need the aliases?

Author: removed

description: Guide for using InfluxDB in Grafana
keywords:
  - grafana
  - influxdb
  - guide
  - flux
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss

> menuTitle: Configure the InfluxDB data source

Reviewer: Maybe can just be "Configure" for a shorter item in the table of contents? The rest of the title is implied by the table of contents hierarchy

```suggestion
menuTitle: Configure
```

Author: I’d prefer to keep it as is. Users have provided feedback that the data source documentation is inconsistent and makes it difficult to find the information they need.

title: Configure the InfluxDB data source
weight: 300
refs:
  build-dashboards:

>     - pattern: /docs/grafana/
>       destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/dashboards/build-dashboards/
>     - pattern: /docs/grafana-cloud/
>       destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/dashboards/build-dashboards/
>   data-source-management:
>     - pattern: /docs/grafana/
>       destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/administration/data-source-management/
>     - pattern: /docs/grafana-cloud/
>       destination: /docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/administration/data-source-management/

Reviewer: I think these are unused in this page and can be removed

```suggestion
```

Click **Manage private data source connect** to be taken to your PDC connection page, where you'll find your PDC configuration details.

Once you have added your connection settings, click **Save & test** to test the data source connection.

### InfluxQL-specific configuration section

The following settings are specific to the InfluxQL query language option.

**InfluxQL InfluxDB details section:**

- **Database** - Sets the ID of the bucket to query. Refer to [View buckets](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.0/organizations/buckets/view-buckets/) in InfluxData's documentation on how to locate the list of available buckets and their corresponding IDs.
- **User** - The user name used to sign in to InfluxDB.
- **Password** - Defines the token used to query the bucket defined in **Database**. Retrieve the password from the [Tokens page](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.0/security/tokens/view-tokens/) of the InfluxDB UI.
- **HTTP method** - Sets the HTTP method used to query your data source. The POST method allows for larger queries that would return an error using the GET method. The default method is `POST`.

> - **Min time interval** - _(Optional)_ Sets the minimum time interval for auto group-by.  Grafana recommends  setting this to match the data write frequency. For example, if your data is written every minute, it’s recommended to set this interval to 1 minute, so that each group contains data from each new write. The default is `10s`. Refer to [Min time interval](#configure-min-time-interval) for format examples.

Reviewer: The anchor #configure-min-time-interval doesn't exist in this page. I think it may be:

```suggestion
- **Min time interval** - _(Optional)_ Sets the minimum time interval for auto group-by.  Grafana recommends  setting this to match the data write frequency. For example, if your data is written every minute, it’s recommended to set this interval to 1 minute, so that each group contains data from each new write. The default is `10s`. Refer to [Min time interval](#min-time-interval) for format examples.
```
